# skincancerapp
DenseNet201-based CNN Model to Predict 7 Categories of Skin Cancer
----------------------------------------------------------------
Cases include a representative collection of all important diagnostic categories in the realm of pigmented lesions:

Actinic keratoses and intraepithelial carcinoma / Bowen's disease (AKIEC),
basal cell carcinoma (BCC),
benign keratosis-like lesions (solar lentigines / seborrheic keratoses and lichen-planus like keratoses, BKL),
dermatofibroma (DF),
melanoma (MEL),
melanocytic nevi (NV)
vascular lesions (angiomas, angiokeratomas, pyogenic granulomas and hemorrhage, VASC).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Skin cancer is the most common cancer in the United States and the current estimates are that 1 in 5 Americans will be diagnosed with skin cancer in their lifetime (May, 2019). 

The following model was generated by retraining a DenseNet201 using the Skin Cancer: HAM10000 Dataset.

To achieve optimal prediction scores the model was trained in the following manner:

1) base line training with full DenseNet201 layers (200 epochs).

2) retrain after Keras parameter tuning (200 epochs).

3) retrain after freezing first 150 layers (200 epochs) to train on latest layer characteristics.

The final model accuracy reached 0.9907, validation accuracy 0.9960.
----------------------------------------------------------------
Acknowledgements

Tschandl, P., Rinner, C., Apalla, Z. et al. Human–computer collaboration for skin cancer recognition. Nat Med (2020). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41591-020-0942-0

Tschandl, P., Rosendahl, C. & Kittler, H. The HAM10000 dataset, a large collection of multi-source dermatoscopic images of common pigmented skin lesions. Sci Data 5, 180161 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1038/sdata.2018.161
